![Banner](https://s-christy.com/status-banner-service/number-naming/banner-slim.svg)

## Overview

These are programs written in a few different languages that generate very
large numbers and print out both the numerical and the English representation
of those numbers. These programs were created in part because I was interested
in answering questions like what is the longest number, what happens if you
sort the numbers alphabetically, etc... and in part because I wanted to have
some demo code for projects and as part of a portfolio.

## Example

Here is an example of output from the Python version:

```
168,976,336,390,836,722,441,593,561,433,616,540,734,788,208,311,343,388,829,977,
897,864,850,806,644,757,048,205,790,285,737,490,198,236,225,199,748,281,855,395,
397,418,852,685,441,485,363,460,654,638,279,586,543,492,403,718,463,565,992,158,
132,332,660,642,200,855,130,959,206,326,576,638,598,957,420,867,004,165,476,906,
102,000,314,835,550,752,196,990,986,942,114,274,736,943,518,365,826,493,420,103,
910,457

one hundred sixty eight centillion, nine hundred seventy six
novennonagintillion, three hundred thirty six octononagintillion, three hundred
ninety septnonagintillion, eight hundred thirty six sesnonagintillion, seven
hundred twenty two quinnonagintillion, four hundred fourty one
quattuornonagintillion, five hundred ninety three tresnonagintillion, five
hundred sixty one duononagintillion, four hundred thirty three unnonagintillion,
six hundred sixteen nonagintillion, five hundred fourty novenoctogintillion,
seven hundred thirty four octooctogintillion, seven hundred eighty eight
septoctogintillion, two hundred eight sesoctogintillion, three hundred eleven
quinoctogintillion, three hundred fourty three quattuoroctogintillion, three
hundred eighty eight tresoctogintillion, eight hundred twenty nine
duooctogintillion, nine hundred seventy seven unoctogintillion, eight hundred
ninety seven octogintillion, eight hundred sixty four novenseptuagintillion,
eight hundred fifty octoseptuagintillion, eight hundred six
septseptuagintillion, six hundred fourty four sesseptuagintillion, seven hundred
fifty seven quinseptuagintillion, fourty eight quattuorseptuagintillion, two
hundred five tresseptuagintillion, seven hundred ninety duoseptuagintillion, two
hundred eighty five unseptuagintillion, seven hundred thirty seven
septuagintillion, four hundred ninety novensexagintillion, one hundred ninety
eight octosexagintillion, two hundred thirty six septsexagintillion, two hundred
twenty five sessexagintillion, one hundred ninety nine quinsexagintillion, seven
hundred fourty eight quattuorsexagintillion, two hundred eighty one
tressexagintillion, eight hundred fifty five duosexagintillion, three hundred
ninety five unsexagintillion, three hundred ninety seven sexagintillion, four
hundred eighteen novenquinquagintillion, eight hundred fifty two
octoquinquagintillion, six hundred eighty five septquinquagintillion, four
hundred fourty one sesquinquagintillion, four hundred eighty five
quinquinquagintillion, three hundred sixty three quattuorquinquagintillion, four
hundred sixty tresquinquagintillion, six hundred fifty four
duoquinquagintillion, six hundred thirty eight unquinquagintillion, two hundred
seventy nine quinquagintillion, five hundred eighty six novenquadragintillion,
five hundred fourty three octoquadragintillion, four hundred ninety two
septquadragintillion, four hundred three sesquadragintillion, seven hundred
eighteen quinquadragintillion, four hundred sixty three
quattuorquadragintillion, five hundred sixty five tresquadragintillion, nine
hundred ninety two duoquadragintillion, one hundred fifty eight
unquadragintillion, one hundred thirty two quadragintillion, three hundred
thirty two noventrigintillion, six hundred sixty octotrigintillion, six hundred
fourty two septtrigintillion, two hundred sestrigintillion, eight hundred fifty
five quintrigintillion, one hundred thirty quattuortrigintillion, nine hundred
fifty nine trestrigintillion, two hundred six duotrigintillion, three hundred
twenty six untrigintillion, five hundred seventy six trigintillion, six hundred
thirty eight novenvigintillion, five hundred ninety eight octovigintillion, nine
hundred fifty seven septvigintillion, four hundred twenty sesvigintillion, eight
hundred sixty seven quinvigintillion, four quattuorvigintillion, one hundred
sixty five tresvigintillion, four hundred seventy six duovigintillion, nine
hundred six unvigintillion, one hundred two vigintillion, three hundred fourteen
octodecillion, eight hundred thirty five septdecillion, five hundred fifty
sesdecillion, seven hundred fifty two quindecillion, one hundred ninety six
quattuordecillion, nine hundred ninety tresdecillion, nine hundred eighty six
duodecillion, nine hundred fourty two undecillion, one hundred fourteen
decillion, two hundred seventy four nonillion, seven hundred thirty six
octillion, nine hundred fourty three septillion, five hundred eighteen
sextillion, three hundred sixty five quintillion, eight hundred twenty six
quadrillion, four hundred ninety three trillion, four hundred twenty billion,
one hundred three million, nine hundred ten thousand, four hundred fifty seven
```

## Special Numbers

One of my main motivations for writing this code was to extract interesting
properties from lists of numbers. Here are a few things I've found out.

### Long Numbers

The longest English representation of a number that is 306 digits or less is:

```
373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,
373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,
373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,
373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,
373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,373,
373,373

three hundred seventy three centillion, three hundred seventy three
novennonagintillion, three hundred seventy three octononagintillion, three
hundred seventy three septnonagintillion, three hundred seventy three
sesnonagintillion, three hundred seventy three quinnonagintillion, three hundred
seventy three quattuornonagintillion, three hundred seventy three
tresnonagintillion, three hundred seventy three duononagintillion, three hundred
seventy three unnonagintillion, three hundred seventy three nonagintillion,
three hundred seventy three novenoctogintillion, three hundred seventy three
octooctogintillion, three hundred seventy three septoctogintillion, three
hundred seventy three sesoctogintillion, three hundred seventy three
quinoctogintillion, three hundred seventy three quattuoroctogintillion, three
hundred seventy three tresoctogintillion, three hundred seventy three
duooctogintillion, three hundred seventy three unoctogintillion, three hundred
seventy three octogintillion, three hundred seventy three novenseptuagintillion,
three hundred seventy three octoseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three
septseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three sesseptuagintillion, three
hundred seventy three quinseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three
quattuorseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three tresseptuagintillion,
three hundred seventy three duoseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three
unseptuagintillion, three hundred seventy three septuagintillion, three hundred
seventy three novensexagintillion, three hundred seventy three
octosexagintillion, three hundred seventy three septsexagintillion, three
hundred seventy three sessexagintillion, three hundred seventy three
quinsexagintillion, three hundred seventy three quattuorsexagintillion, three
hundred seventy three tressexagintillion, three hundred seventy three
duosexagintillion, three hundred seventy three unsexagintillion, three hundred
seventy three sexagintillion, three hundred seventy three
novenquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three octoquinquagintillion, three
hundred seventy three septquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three
sesquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three quinquinquagintillion, three
hundred seventy three quattuorquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three
tresquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three duoquinquagintillion, three
hundred seventy three unquinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three
quinquagintillion, three hundred seventy three novenquadragintillion, three
hundred seventy three octoquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three
septquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three sesquadragintillion, three
hundred seventy three quinquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three
quattuorquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three tresquadragintillion,
three hundred seventy three duoquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three
unquadragintillion, three hundred seventy three quadragintillion, three hundred
seventy three noventrigintillion, three hundred seventy three octotrigintillion,
three hundred seventy three septtrigintillion, three hundred seventy three
sestrigintillion, three hundred seventy three quintrigintillion, three hundred
seventy three quattuortrigintillion, three hundred seventy three
trestrigintillion, three hundred seventy three duotrigintillion, three hundred
seventy three untrigintillion, three hundred seventy three trigintillion, three
hundred seventy three novenvigintillion, three hundred seventy three
octovigintillion, three hundred seventy three septvigintillion, three hundred
seventy three sesvigintillion, three hundred seventy three quinvigintillion,
three hundred seventy three quattuorvigintillion, three hundred seventy three
tresvigintillion, three hundred seventy three duovigintillion, three hundred
seventy three unvigintillion, three hundred seventy three vigintillion, three
hundred seventy three novendecillion, three hundred seventy three octodecillion,
three hundred seventy three septdecillion, three hundred seventy three
sesdecillion, three hundred seventy three quindecillion, three hundred seventy
three quattuordecillion, three hundred seventy three tresdecillion, three
hundred seventy three duodecillion, three hundred seventy three undecillion,
three hundred seventy three decillion, three hundred seventy three nonillion,
three hundred seventy three octillion, three hundred seventy three septillion,
three hundred seventy three sextillion, three hundred seventy three quintillion,
three hundred seventy three quadrillion, three hundred seventy three trillion,
three hundred seventy three billion, three hundred seventy three million, three
hundred seventy three thousand, three hundred seventy three
```

There are actually other numbers of equivalent length. They are all permutations
of the following numbers under 1,000:

```
three hundred seventy three
three hundred seventy seven
three hundred seventy eight
seven hundred seventy three
seven hundred seventy seven
seven hundred seventy eight
eight hundred seventy three
eight hundred seventy seven
eight hundred seventy eight
```

Because "three", "seven", and "eight" are all tied for the longest one's digit,
they are basically interchangeable. "Seventy" is the longest word in the ten's
place, so that place cannot be changed. Three choices in two slots is
3<sup>2</sup>=9 different choices.

## License

This work is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3 (GPLv3).

[<img src="https://s-christy.com/status-banner-service/GPLv3_Logo.svg" width="150" />](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html)
